ADR: Adding blazer to our infrastructure and the implementation behind it (#28)
cds-snc/notification-adr: records/2022-11-22.security.blazer.md

# Introducing Blazer and its Implementation for Notify

Date: 2022-11-22

## Status

**DRAFT**

## Context
In order to have a thorough understanding of data in our system, Notify devs wanted a collaborative tool which would allow them to explore the database. The tool would allow us to store queries and share them between developers. An added bonus would be if the tool graphed results in a meaningful manner. The goal of this ADR is to explain the implementation of the tool that was chosen for exploring the database.

## Blazer

> Going through a list of products that are available and meet our main requirement of collaboration and graphing we decided on https://github.com/ankane/blazer

Reviewer: Do we have a list of these products? did we run a comparison report or matrix?

### Implementation

Introducing blazer into our system requires us to do the following:

1. Blazer needs access to the main Notify DB

> 2. Blazer needs to be secure and auditable

Reviewer: Where could I find the audits if I want to know who executed which queries?

Author: added this under monitoring

## Deployment

### Blazer Container

> The first step is to add Blazer to the Notify ECR. This way Notify has control over the image that is deployed to our production system. The downside of this is that Notify devs need to maintain this image by pushing security updates

Reviewer: Do we have any mechanism in place to report if a security patch is required by us?

Reviewer 2: Yes, Renovate is active on the repo for patching and GitHub Security will also raise vulnerability alerts.  There is currently one open that does not impact us and can be dismissed:
https://github.com/cds-snc/notification-lambdas/security/dependabot/1

Author: added this under the Blazer Container section

### Database

> Blazer stores all its queries in a Blazer schema under the database. In order to have a sepration of concerns and not use the same database for both Notify data and Blazer data, a new database - "Database Tools" was set up.

Reviewer: Let's mention that blazer also only access a read only version of our database, but also potential risk this might cause if we overload the read only instances with many concurrent queries.

Author: done

### ECS Task
Set up blazer to run as an ECS Task. Blazer runs as a service within an ECS cluster.
This meant we didn't have to deploy a Blazer instance inside the EKS cluster and instead separated out the service for its own reliability and security purpose.

> ### Private Links

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### AWS PrivateLink
```

> We need to introduce Private Links in order for Blazer to speak to all of Notify's services without exiting the Notify VPC. Previous to the implementation of private links, Blazer as well as our EKS cluster would need to exit the VPC to speak to other AWS cloud services. With the introduction of Blazer/ we were adding a further vector that a third party could attack as Blazer would have to access the internet. We introduced private links into our infrastructure so services can speak to each other without leaving the VPC.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We need to introduce [AWS PrivateLink](https://aws.amazon.com/privatelink/) in order for Blazer to speak to all of Notify's and AWS's services without exiting the Notify VPC. Previous to the implementation of PrivateLink, Blazer as well as our EKS cluster, would need to exit the VPC to speak to other AWS cloud services. With the introduction of Blazer we were adding a further vector that a third party could attack as Blazer would have to access the internet. We introduced PrivateLinks into our infrastructure so services can speak to each other securely without leaving the VPC.
```

### Diagram Pre Private Links Implementation

![Blazer-preprivate](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/8869623/203845636-225e0c9e-1f02-4e2e-85bc-4110cbd1d7a2.png)

## Diagram Post Private Links Implementation (Current State of Infrastructure)

> ![Blazer-postprivate](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/8869623/203845655-64a67f1a-42d6-4986-88b2-8a5082c6c108.png)

Reviewer: Let's store the diagram images within the repository itself please.

Author: done

The repository where the container is hosted uses **Renovate** to help manage security updates. Upgrading the image with renovate suggestions should be part of the dev sprint process.

### Database
Blazer stores all its queries in a Blazer schema under the database. To have a separation of concerns and not use the same database for both Notify data and Blazer data, a new database - "Database Tools" was set up.

Blazer accesses the Notify DB through a read-only connection string on the replica. This may lead to too many concurrent reads on the DB but should be scalable in the long term by adding further replicas.

### ECS Task
Set up blazer to run as an ECS Task. Blazer runs as a service within an ECS cluster.
This meant we didn't have to deploy a Blazer instance inside the EKS cluster and instead separated the service for its own reliability and security purpose.

### AWS PrivateLink

#### Blazer Threat Modelling Exercise

> Blazer ECS task has unrestricted access to egress data to the internet on port 443. Since this task has read-only access to all of Notify's data, this would allow a threat agent to dump and export all our data. There is no monitoring or alerting on unexpected data egress from the Notify VPC. you can read about the entire threat model and the resulting reason to create AWS Private Links [here](https://github.com/cds-snc/platform-core-services/issues/154).

Reviewer: nice nice

### Solution
We need to introduce [AWS PrivateLink](https://aws.amazon.com/privatelink/) for Blazer to speak to all of Notify's and AWS's services without exiting the Notify VPC. Previous to the implementation of PrivateLink, Blazer as well as our EKS cluster, would need to exit the VPC to speak to other AWS cloud services. With the introduction of Blazer, we were adding a further vector that a third party could attack as Blazer would have to access the internet. We introduced PrivateLinks into our infrastructure so services can speak to each other securely without leaving the VPC.

### Google CIDR

> An AWS lambda was needed for updating Google CIDRs(https://github.com/cds-snc/notification-lambdas/tree/main/google-cidr). The CIDR lambda updates the Google CIDR URL's that are needed for Google Oauth to work through the Blazer image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An AWS lambda was needed for updating Google CIDR ranges(https://github.com/cds-snc/notification-lambdas/tree/main/google-cidr). The CIDR lambda updates the Google CIDR ranges that are allowed to exit the VPC and needed for Google OAuth to work through the Blazer image.
```
